Add initial release highlights and future work for Bevy 0.16 (#2043)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2025-XX-XX-bevy-0.16/index.md

Since our last release a few months ago we've added a _ton_ of new features, bug fixes, and quality of life tweaks, but here are some of the highlights:

- **GPU-driven rendering:** GPUs are fast: we should make sure that we keep them busy! We've done a ton of performance-oriented work that should make Bevy dramatically faster on big, complex scenes.
- **Unified error handling:** Sick of impossible to debug panics in your Bevy code? Us too! We've dramatically improved debuggability with the new `track_location` feature flag, and we've made it easy to return and handle errors across the entire ECS.
- **Relations:** one of the hottest ECS features is finally here: allowing you to easily and robustly model and work with entity-entity connections. Some caveats apply, but we're excited to get a simple and robust solution to users today.
- **`no_std` is a reality:** `bevy` itself and a ton of our subcrates no longer rely on Rust's standard library, letting you use the same engine on everything from a modern gaming rig to a Gameboy Advance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Procedural atmosphere scattering system:** allows for simulating realistic physically-based Earth-like sky at any time of day at a low performance cost. It is a multi pass advanced rendering technique and it's achieved using WebGPU compute shaders that run on both web and native platforms.
```

Since our last release a few months ago we've added a _ton_ of new features, bug fixes, and quality of life tweaks, but here are some of the highlights:

- **GPU-driven rendering:** GPUs are fast: we should make sure that we keep them busy! We've done a ton of performance-oriented work that should make Bevy dramatically faster on big, complex scenes.

> - **Unified error handling:** Sick of impossible to debug panics in your Bevy code? Us too! We've dramatically improved debuggability with the new `track_location` feature flag, and we've made it easy to return and handle errors across the entire ECS.

Author: Fascinating: I really like the feature too but I thought I would be alone in that opinion.

The features above may be great, but what else does Bevy have in flight?
Peering deep into the mists of time (predictions are _extra_ hard when your team is almost all volunteers!), we can see some exciting work taking shape:

> - **A revamped observers API:** Observers are incredibly popular, but come with some weird quirks. Why is `OnAdd` not generic? What does that `B: Bundle` generic even _do_? Please, I want to add observers in my entity spawning to write little callbacks!

Reviewer 2: > Please, I want to add observers in my entity spawning to write little callbacks!

I don't understand what this part is saying, needs a little more context imo.

Author: ```suggestion
- **A revamped observers API:** Observers are incredibly popular, but come with some weird quirks. We're looking to smooth those out, and make them the easiest way to write one-off logic for UI.
```

- **Resources-as-entities:** Sure would be nice if hooks, observers, relations and more worked with resources. Rather than duplicating all of the code, we'd like to [make them components on singleton entities](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/17485) under the hood.
- **A .bsn file format and bsn! macro:** With the foundations laid (required components, improved spawning and relations!), it's time to build out the terse and robust Bevy-native scene format (and matching macro) described in [bevy#14437](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/discussions/14437).
- **Light textures:** Also known as "light cookies", these are great for everything from dappled sunlight to shadow boxing.

> - **Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a modern, GPU and neural-net powered approach to improving the resolution of images: coming soon to an open source game engine near you.

Reviewer 2: I think we should make it clear that we're integrating _nvidia's_ DLSS, and not writing our own :P

Also it's not really "improving the resolution of images". It's basically better TAA than what we have, and because it's an upscaler, makes the frame overall much quicker to render (rendering at a lower resolution saves a lot of GPU time, even if the upscaling step itself is (likely?) more expensive than bevy's TAA).

Author: ```suggestion
- **NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a modern, GPU and neural-net powered approach to upscaling,. With `wgpu`'s help, we're hoping to integrate with NVIDIA's built-in solution.
```

Reviewer 2: Suggested something like this:
-  **NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a neural-net powered approach to temporal anti-aliasing and upscaling for NVIDIA RTX GPUs. We're working on integrating DLSS into Bevy to provide a cheaper and higher quality anti-aliasing solution than Bevy's current TAA (on supported platforms).

The wgpu work was also stuff I did btw 😅. They weren't involved in the actual DLSS/Bevy part, but they helped me write and debug a new wgpu API that allowed me to integrate DLSS.

Author: Awesome thank you (both for the writing and for the upstream work!).
```suggestion
**NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a neural-net powered approach to temporal anti-aliasing and upscaling for NVIDIA RTX GPUs. We're working on integrating DLSS into Bevy to provide a cheaper and higher quality anti-aliasing solution than Bevy's current TAA (on supported platforms).
```

> **NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a neural-net powered approach to temporal anti-aliasing and upscaling for NVIDIA RTX GPUs. We're working on integrating DLSS into Bevy to provide a cheaper and higher quality anti-aliasing solution than Bevy's current TAA (on supported platforms).

Reviewer 3: I think the list item is missing here
```suggestion
- **NVIDIA Deep Learning Super Sampling:** DLSS is a neural-net powered approach to temporal anti-aliasing and upscaling for NVIDIA RTX GPUs. We're working on integrating DLSS into Bevy to provide a cheaper and higher quality anti-aliasing solution than Bevy's current TAA (on supported platforms).
```

- **More game-focused examples:** New users continue to flock to Bevy, and need up-to-date learning materials. Our API-focused approach to examples isn't enough: we need to start demonstrating how to use Bevy to do common game dev tasks like making an inventory, saving user preferences or placing structures on a map.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unified volumetrics system:** To get realistic volumetric scenes with localized light shafts using cascading shadow maps, we propose a new unified system that captures both local volumes and atmospheres as part of the same rendering context. This is rendered using temporally jittered ray-marching or ray tracing. We augment this with features like dynamic image based lighting, pluggable API for user defined cloud layers. Finally we attenuate the light sources so that the direct light hitting surfaces is also occluded by volumes, for example orange tinted light reaching objects at sunset. 
```

> - **Unified volumetrics system:** To get realistic volumetric scenes with localized light shafts using cascading shadow maps, we propose a new unified system that captures both local volumes and atmospheres as part of the same rendering context. This is rendered using temporally jittered ray-marching or ray tracing. We augment this with features like dynamic image based lighting, pluggable API for user defined cloud layers. Finally we attenuate the light sources so that the direct light hitting surfaces is also occluded by volumes, for example orange tinted light reaching objects at sunset. 

Reviewer 2: @mate-h I think the tone/audience is a little off in the unified volumetrics system section. Read how e.g. the observers section is written; it talks more about what we're implementing/discussing/etc.
